README.md, before:

# magpie 
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/unepwcmc/magpie.png)](https://travis-ci.org/unepwcmc/magpie)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/badge.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/unepwcmc/magpie)

## Development

### Cartodb config

You will need a cartodb config file in config/cartodb_config.yml, with the following keys:

    host: '<cartodb host>'
    api_key: '<sql api key>'
    username: 'username'
    password: 'password'

### Database

We're using the apartment gem for PostgreSQL schema based multi tenancy. Most important consequences of that are:

* a new schema is created for each application (with the same name). This is hooked as an after_create block, but can also be done manually if needed:

        Apartment::Database.create('database_name')

  this also runs the migrations on the new schema.

* schemas are switched per request based on subdomain. If you need to switch the schema in console use:

        Apartment::Database.switch('database_name')

* migrations should run on all schemas, therefore make sure you use:

        rake apartment:migrate

## Deployment

### Database

The database user needs to be able to create schemas, therefore:

    GRANT CREATE ON DATABASE magpie_staging TO wcmc;

### CORS

To enable cross domain requests in development, you can use rack-cors middleware.

Staging and production environments should have the appropriate headers defined in Apache config:

    <VirtualHost *:80>
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Origin *
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Methods "POST, GET, OPTIONS"
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Headers "X-Requested-With, X-Prototype-Version"
      Header set Access-Control-Max-Age 1728000
      ...

### STDERR is being flooded when using Postgres

If you are using Postgres and have foreign key constraints, the truncation strategy will cause a lot of extra noise to appear on STDERR (in the form of "NOTICE truncate cascades" messages). To silence these warnings set the following log level in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```ruby
client_min_messages = warning
```

## API calls

### Resource: polygon

* POST
        curl localhost:3000/polygons --data "polygon[data]=[50,50]"

        {"polygon":{"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,50]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z"},"analysis":{"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"My Analysis","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z"}}

* PUT
        curl localhost:3000/polygons/2 --data "polygon[data]=[50,500]" -X PUT

        {"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,500]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:13:13Z"}

* GET
        curl localhost:3000/polygons/2

        {"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,500]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:13:13Z"}

### Resource: analysis

* PUT
        curl localhost:3000/analyses/7 --data "analysis[name]=Good stuff" -X PUT

        {"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"Good stuff","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:15:56Z"}

* GET
        curl localhost:3000/analyses/7

        {"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"Good stuff","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:15:56Z"}

## Generated documentation
To generate the api documentation from specs:
  rspec spec --format RspecApiDocumentation::ApiFormatter

To generate the coverage report: coverage report is generated automatically when you run:
  rspec spec

Commit message:

Add some notes about sidekiq

README.md, after:

# magpie 
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/unepwcmc/magpie.png)](https://travis-ci.org/unepwcmc/magpie)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/badge.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/unepwcmc/magpie)

## Development

### Cartodb config

You will need a cartodb config file in config/cartodb_config.yml, with the following keys:

    host: '<cartodb host>'
    api_key: '<sql api key>'
    username: 'username'
    password: 'password'

### Database

We're using the apartment gem for PostgreSQL schema based multi tenancy. Most important consequences of that are:

* a new schema is created for each application (with the same name). This is hooked as an after_create block, but can also be done manually if needed:

        Apartment::Database.create('database_name')

  this also runs the migrations on the new schema.

* schemas are switched per request based on subdomain. If you need to switch the schema in console use:

        Apartment::Database.switch('database_name')

* migrations should run on all schemas, therefore make sure you use:

        rake apartment:migrate

## Deployment

### Database

The database user needs to be able to create schemas, therefore:

    GRANT CREATE ON DATABASE magpie_staging TO wcmc;

### CORS

To enable cross domain requests in development, you can use rack-cors middleware.

Staging and production environments should have the appropriate headers defined in Apache config:

    <VirtualHost *:80>
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Origin *
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Methods "POST, GET, OPTIONS"
      Header set Access-Control-Allow-Headers "X-Requested-With, X-Prototype-Version"
      Header set Access-Control-Max-Age 1728000
      ...

### Sidekiq background jobs
We're using sidekiq for our background job processing (at the time of writing, just for cartodb uploads). Manage the deployment using the available cap commands, use this for a list:

    cap -vT | grep sidekiq

### STDERR is being flooded when using Postgres

If you are using Postgres and have foreign key constraints, the truncation strategy will cause a lot of extra noise to appear on STDERR (in the form of "NOTICE truncate cascades" messages). To silence these warnings set the following log level in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```ruby
client_min_messages = warning
```

## API calls

### Resource: polygon

* POST
        curl localhost:3000/polygons --data "polygon[data]=[50,50]"

        {"polygon":{"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,50]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z"},"analysis":{"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"My Analysis","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z"}}

* PUT
        curl localhost:3000/polygons/2 --data "polygon[data]=[50,500]" -X PUT

        {"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,500]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:13:13Z"}

* GET
        curl localhost:3000/polygons/2

        {"analysis_id":7,"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:57Z","data":"[50,500]","id":2,"updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:13:13Z"}

### Resource: analysis

* PUT
        curl localhost:3000/analyses/7 --data "analysis[name]=Good stuff" -X PUT

        {"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"Good stuff","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:15:56Z"}

* GET
        curl localhost:3000/analyses/7

        {"created_at":"2012-11-07T14:11:56Z","id":7,"name":"Good stuff","updated_at":"2012-11-07T14:15:56Z"}

## Generated documentation
To generate the api documentation from specs:
  rspec spec --format RspecApiDocumentation::ApiFormatter

To generate the coverage report: coverage report is generated automatically when you run:
  rspec spec
